# RAK7205

## Requirements

* Add the current user to the dialout group: `sudo usermod -a -G dialout $USER`
* Restart the session
* Install cutecom: `sudo apt-get install cutecom`

## Connection

* Connect the board to the PC using a micro USB cable.
* Retrieve the serial port name: `dmesg | grep tty`. Remember the device on the
line containing `cp210x`.
* Open CuteCom and open the above serial port.
* Set the line separator to `CR/LF` and the input type to `Script`.
* To test the connection, input the following command: `at+version`. This
should return something similar to `Firmware Version: RUI v3.0.0.12.H.T1`.
If the modem was sleeping, it will print `Wake up`. Send the command again to
actually execute it.

## Registration at the LPNP

To get the required information for registering a device at the LPNP, run the
command `at+get_config=lora:status`. It will output the following data:
* DevEUI
* AppEUI (also known as JoinEUI)
* AppKey

## Transmission of sample data

To transmit sample data, send `at+send=lora:1:123456`.

## Send interval

Use `at+set_config=lora:send_interval:1:120` to set the send interval to 120
seconds.

## Firmware upgrade

To upgrade the firmware, upload your source code as a zip file to the
[RUI Online Compiler](https://build.rakwireless.com). Select `RAK811-H` as the
product and run the compiler.

To put the device into DFU mode, run the command `at+set_config=device:boot`.
It should print `<BOOT MODE>`. Disconnect the serial console and run the
[RAK Device Firmware Upgrade Tool](https://downloads.rakwireless.com/LoRa/Tools/RAK_Device_Firmware_Upgrade_tool/)
to flash the new firmware to the device. Reconnect the serial console after you
are done. You may need to run `at+run` to start the device.
